Successful traders know that their greatest enemy can be their own minds. Often, emotions and loss
aversion can get in the way of making good trading decisions.

Here are some points you should consider when crafting your strategy:

Set realistic profit targets: Start small and track your performance Set a risk level for your
portfolio: Evaluate if it's worth the risk you're taking Be informed: Know what you're trading and
why you're trading it Take notes: Track your progress and review at the end of each trading session

https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/trading/types-of-trading-strategies/momentum-trading-strategies

To spot trends early on, you may want to include a shorter-term price change component, for example
a 1-week or 4-week price change measure. This works both getting into and getting out of a
particular stock or ETF.

To be a successful momentum trader, you need to be able to identify the best sectors quickly and
accurately. You can probably do this manually with many screeners out there, but the basic steps are
as follows:

First you need to identify the stocks and ETFs you are interested in. Determine the number of stocks
and ETFs trading close to their yearly highs. Sort the chosen stocks and ETFs from highest to lowest
to see which are doing the best. Devise an entry strategy. You may want to enter when an instrument
is showing short-term strength or wait for a pullback and buy on weakness. Either approach can work;
the important point is to execute a plan. Devise an exit strategy. You should know going into the
trade at what point (or conditions) you will take profits and at what point (or conditions) you will
exit with a loss.

Swing traders should select their candidates from the most actively traded stocks and ETFs that show
a tendency to swing within broad well-defined channels. Virtually all trading platforms provide a
function to enter channel lines on a price chart. The trader should keep a list of stocks and ETFs
to monitor on a daily basis and become familiar with the price action of their selected candidates.

Here is an example of swing trading:

Identify a stock or ETF where the weekly trend is up and the bottoms on the daily bar chart tend to
be short and sharp. Analyze how the stock or ETF has behaved since the beginning of the trend. If it
has returned to the moving average 3 times and penetrated it by an average of 1.5% of its price,
place a buy order approximately 1% of the instrument's price below the moving average, a little more
shallow than the previous declines.

After entering a swing trade, place a protective stop reasonably close to your entry point. Swing
trading is a high-wire act, requiring a safety net. Stops and money management are essential for
your survival and success.

Take profits near the upper channel line. If the market is strong, you can wait for the channel line
to be hit. If it's weak, grab your first profit while it's still there. What if a strong swing
overshoots the channel line? An experienced trader may shift his tactics and hold a little longer,
perhaps until the day when the market fails to make a new high. A beginning trader is better advised
to take profits after the channel line has been hit as it's important to learn to take profits in
accordance with one's trading plan.
